[dramatic music plays]
Norway declares neutrality
when world war II breaks out.
[dramatic music continues playing]
Sweden delivers 85% of the iron ore
used by the German weapons industry.
The ore is transported by train across
the border and shipped out from Narvik.
[dramatic music playing]
Stopping the ore
transportation is considered
by Great Britain to be
of the utmost importance.
On April 8 1940, the British marine force
mined Norwegian waters.
A troop of Norwegian soldiers
are transferred to Narvik
as neutrality guards the same day.
Unaware of the fact that Norway's
neutrality has already been breached.
[dramatic music intensifies]
[pensive music plays]
[indistinct chatter]
[indistinct conversations]
[pensive music continues]
Do you smell that?
Yes, now I do. Yeah.
Smell what?
Over there.
[bird cawing]
-The saltwater?
-[snickers]
It's something else.
You don't smell it?
[pensive music playing]
No.
You're not from around here.
That smell, it's iron ore.
Smell of money.
[indistinct chatter]
Soldiers, listen up!
All leave is canceled.
[soldier 1] This always
happens last minute.
[soldier 2] I know.
[seagulls squawking]
[soldier 1] Yeah, we got this.
[soldier 3] Hey! Did you hear?
We're going back to base.
Captain? Uh, It's my son's… birthday.
Everyone must return to base.
Corporal, be back before midnight then.
Thank you, Major.
[seagulls squawking]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[engine whirring]
Take this.
How did you manage that?
I'm not a pack mule.
Don't make me say it's an order.
[scoffs]
Say hi to Bjørg for me.
Bjørg? Think you have a shot with her?
[indistinct chatter]
[engine rumbling]
[boy 1] I'm coming!
[uplifting music plays]
[man 1] Our ore contains more iron
-than any other.
-[phone ringing]
And that's why, as you all know,
it is sought after all over the world.
And today when we present
the plans for our new ore keep,
you can see for yourselves
that here, there will be
more than enough room for everyone.
I guarantee it.
[woman 1] Is there a problem?
[man 1] German and English industry
have one thing in common with us
here in little Narvik.
You all profit greatly from the peace
-and security of our harbor.
-[in German] …there is peace and security,
-uh, in our harbor. And--
-And we are very happy about it.
[man 1] But unfortunately,
it has come to
my attention that several ships,
both German and English,
-have been sunk after leaving port.
-[in German] Excuse me.
[exhales excitedly]
[man 1] This affects all of us.
Since both German and English
representatives are present here today,
I would ask you to speak with
your governments about an agreement
guaranteeing that all
ships from all nations
-can count on safe passage.
-Speak with their authorities…
to secure safety for all ships,
[in German] so that the ore
makes it safely to its destination.
[in German] Well,
your Mayor thinks too highly of me.
Consul Wussow, cheers!
[in German] Let me refill your drink.
[consul Wussow in German] To Narvik!
Consul Ross.
Cheers.
[Mayor] Cheers to Narvik!
[crowd] Cheers to Narvik!
[crowd clapping]
[sentimental music plays]
Hansen says hi.
Say hi back.
So you're finished now?
Soon. [inhales]
We were transferred here today.
They say why?
Yes.
So I can be close to you, of course.
[chuckles]
[woman 2] Hey, we need
to start the service now.
Yes.
Someone else is gonna be happy to see you.
[Corporal] Yeah? Where is he?
Outside, with your dad.
-Ingrid?
-Mm-hm?
I have to be back by midnight.
[sighs] Don't leave before I get off work.
Well hurry then.
[horse neighing]
[indistinct conversation]
Move. Stand back.
One more.
Look who's over there.
-[yells] Daddy!
-[laughs]
Hey!
[grunts]
[kissing sound]
-Hey. Wow.
-Hey.
-You're as heavy as a five-year-old.
-I'm six!
-You're six? Then this must be for you.
-Yes.
[nostalgic music plays]
-[faint whistling]
-It's a locomotive!
A locomotive.
[sniffs]
How are you?
-I'm fine.
-[boy 2 making train noises]
-[Corporal] Let me see. Do you like it?
-Yes.
[nostalgic music continues playing]
-[making train noises]
-[Corporal joins in making train noises]
-[indistinct conversation]
-[smacks lips]
More tea, consul?
No, thank you.
May I ask, did the German consul
share any thoughts on your Mayor's speech?
With me?
Hmm.
No, he asked me to translate, that's all.
Hm.
I shouldn't give in
to all his requests, miss.
Trust me, that is not
the best way to handle the German.
[woman 2] We handle all guests
the same way, Mr. Ross.
-Of course you do.
-[chuckling] Yes we do.
So Gunnar is back?
Mm. Only for tonight.
So I wondered if I could uh…
[male voice on radio] The Reuters has been
informed from secure sources in London
that the placement of mines in Norwegian
waters was completed in one hour,
without involvement from any others…
[man 2] Thank God
we have the English lads.
[male voice]During the afternoon and night
it was reported that three German ships
off the Norwegian coast,
have been hit with torpedos.
Both warring parties…
Someone's gotta fucking
put a stop to that Hitler.
-[snickers]
-[male voice] And that's tonight's news.
[dog howling in distance]
[Gunnar and Ingrid chuckle excitedly]
He wanted to finish building,
so I didn't have the heart to…
-Hey.
I'll take Ole and we'll go to bed.
[Ingrid] Thank you.
[Dad grunts]
[Ingrid] Goodnight.
-[Dad] Goodnight.
-Goodnight.
[both laugh softly]
By the way, as I told Ingrid,
-[laughs]
-I'm happy to arrange a bunkbed anytime.
-Goodnight, Dad.
-[Dad chuckles]
-[Dad] Goodnight.
-[Ingrid] Goodnight.
[softly] Listen… [inhale]
I have to leave in half an hour.
[softly] I know, I know. We have time.
You think?
[inhales]
[sensual music plays]
[exhales]
[heavy breathing]
-[shushes]
-[Ingrid laughs]
He's the one talking about the bunkbeds.
[heavy breathing]
[sniffs, kissing sounds]
[clock ticking]
-[explosion sound]
-[gasps]
[dogs barking]
[Ingrid] Gunnar?
Did you hear that?
No.
You have no idea how much trouble I'm in.
I should have been back
more than four hours ago.
You could just blame me.
[laughs]
[sighs deeply]
-[Ingrid] When are you coming back?
-[Gunnar] Tonight.
Unless they throw me in jail.
[chuckles]
Love you.
Take care of yourself.
[wind howling]
[explosion sounds]
[tense music plays]
Colonel, sir.
Why are you not armed?
I've… I've been on leave.
And I'm supposed to
defend the town with this?
Our ships have been sunk.
Marines scattered all over the harbor.
[male voice 2 on radio] German warships
passed the Oslofjord fortress tonight
after engaging with the fortress'
batteries and has continued onwards.
German warships have also entered Bergen
after a battle with the fortress
and Bergen now occupied.
One ship has entered Narvik.
Most likely after a battle
with Norwegian vessels
and they have landed a smaller force.
We have no further details.
[soldier 4] Did they really sink a ship?
[Gunnar] Magne? Where's my gun?
-Huh?
-Where's all my stuff?
Back at camp.
[ominous music plays]
In position and awaiting orders.
[in German] Withdraw! Or we will shoot!
[soldier 5 in German] That is not
going to happen!
[ominous music continues playing]
-[in English] Where are you going?
-I'm coming with you.
No! I'm doing this alone.
[Magne breathes shakily]
Get it together.
[in German] So many dead.
Was that really necessary?
[in German] We warned the ships.
They refused to surrender.
[soldier 5] We have control over every
town in Norway. You don't stand a chance.
[train engine chugging in distance]
I thought that you had
accepted an agreement.
Or did I misunderstand?
I got it.
[Gunnar exhales]
What the hell are they doing?
I cannot believe it.
[Colonel yells] Pull back!
Colonel, this is in violation of--
I can't have the town blown into pieces.
[indistinct muttering]
[soldier 6] Aren't we going to fight?
[indistinct chatter]
-[soldier 7] Just follow orders.
-[soldier 6] Are they going to take it?
-[soldier 6] Am I right?
-[soldier 7] Yeah, just come on.
[dogs barking in distance]
Okay. Let's take a left down here, boys.
[soldier 8] We're not going back to camp?
[Captain] No way in hell we are.
[soldier 8] Are we… are we not?
[soldier 9] What's going on?
[dogs barking in distance]
[soldier 8] I'm going home.
[tense music playing]
Where are you going?
You know what the Germans
do to POWs? They shoot them.
Magne, what are you doing?
You're a soldier, for fuck's sake.
[tense music swells and fades]
-[birds chirping]
-[wind howling]
Excuse me?
Oh, you have to use the…
the main entrance.
I can't use that
entrance anymore, I'm sorry.
What's going on?
Please, miss, it's um… it's rather urgent.
[man 3] It's a matter of life and death.
-Come with me.
-Thank you.
[indistinct chatter]
[soldier 9 in German] That one too!
Put him with the others!
[in German] Down! Down!
To the reception desk!
[indistinct commands in German]
-[soldier 9] Keep moving!
-[soldier 10 in German] Get out!
[soldier 10] Come on, hurry!
[soldier 9] This way.
[indistinct commands in German]
-[soldier 10] Get down, down!
-[soldier 9] Stop!
[soldier 11 in German] Give me
the Englishman's keys!
[soldier 9] Come on, hurry up!
[in German] Down, down!
To the reception desk.
[in German] One second!
I need this young lady. As a translator.
Mrs. Tofte, could you help us?
We urgently need the key to room 503.
They want the key to Ross' room.
[woman 2] We don't give out
the keys of our guest.
[in German] I'm sorry, there is
only one key for each room.
Yes. And one that
fits everywhere. The-- The master key.
[in German] The key! Now!
[man 4 in German] No, no.
We come here as friends.
To protect Norway from the English.
So please be careful with your weapon.
I understand.
[man 4] You do? Good.
[ominous music plays]
But my husband is a soldier.
Oh. Down at the harbor?
No.
The Norwegian Army
has laid down their arms.
That means he's safe.
[keys clattering]
[man 4] Thank you.
[soldier 11 in German] Walter,
you're coming with me.
Alright, we-- we'd
like to take over all the rooms.
[in English] He wants all the rooms.
But our guests, what about them?
The guests who need to move
out will be compensated, of course.
One, two.
That should be enough for now.
And you will get a pay raise.
[in German] No. No, thanks.
That's not necessary.
Of course it is.
I need someone who appreciates the value
of cooperation and who speaks German.
-[soldier 10 whispering]
-Excuse me.
[woman 2] Go help Bjørg in the kitchen,
people need breakfast.
[in English] Hey, did I
do something wrong?
No, you didn't.
They were taking the keys no matter what.
We can't control the conflict.
So let's just try to run the hotel.
[train wheels clanging]
[in German] Halt! Stop there!
Just keep on marching.
[in German] What is going on, soldier?
[in German] You're not
allowed to leave town.
Why?
You have to turn
around and go back to the barracks.
You are not allowed to march here.
Yes, we march.
[tense music plays]
[soldier 12 in German] Let them through?
[soldier 13 in German] I'm ready.
Should I shoot?
[in English] And we keep our eyes forward.
[tense music ends]
[Bjørg whispering] What should we do?
The Germans are in the backyard.
[knock on the door]
[soldier 14 in German] Open
the door at once!
-[banging on door]
-[tap running]
[soldier 15 in German] Open up!
[tense music plays]
[soldier 14] Hello?
-[knocking on door]
-[soldier 15] Open the door right now!
[soldier 14] We know you're in there!
There you go. Did you not here us?
Move.
[birds chirping]
[tense music playing]
[in German] Good morning.
[soldier 14 in German] Morning.
Please follow me. The coffee is ready.
[tense music continues playing]
Milk or sugar?
Milk, please.
For me too.
[soldier 16 in German] Soldiers!
-Come.
-[soldier 16] Everyone gather for an…
[tense music playing]
[in English] This way.
[Mr. Ross] Wait. Wait.
We need your help, Mrs. Tofte.
Am I given to
understand that you live nearby?
I live--
I didn't know what to say.
I live across the backyard.
The Germans will find you there.
Nevertheless, we have nowhere else to be.
I can't get involved. I have a child.
[inhales softly]
If you close this door on us,
we may well die.
Is there anywhere else
we might go Mrs. Tofte?
Not connected to you, of course.
Oh, what about the hunting cabin?
In the mountains?
Bjørg will show you.
Thank you very much.
[man 3] It's just for a few days.
Our troops will arrive shortly.
We are trusting
in your discretion, Mrs. Tofte.
You can trust us.
[birds chirping]
We have to leave town.
[Ole] Should I bring my boots?
Yeah, bring your boots.
Have you heard what's going on?
What about Gunnar?
[Dad] He's left already.
No. The Norwegian soldiers
are here, in Narvik.
They've surrendered.
There's a company
marching along the tracks.
And Gunnar's with them?
Do you think he would surrender?
[tense music plays]
[tense music playing]
[chuckles softly]
[tense music swells and ends]
Did you make it back to camp last night?
He was busy driving the toy train.
[laughs]
[man 7 in German] The ferry is closed.
Go back home.
[man 8 in German] So now we're just
standing here gawking like idiots.
[wistful music plays]
Do you think he's Norwegian?
Grandpa told me that they're from
the Norwegian ships that the Germans sunk.
[birds chirping]
[in German] What's happening?
[in German] The ferry
is closed for civilians.
No one is allowed to leave the town.
If the Germans think they can close
off the city, they're in for a surprise.
[wistful music playing]
Ole, come on.
[wistful music continues playing]
Don't look.
Did you get more?
Corporal Tofte,
the Major wants to see you.
[soldier 17] Jail time.
[Major] It has to be here somewhere.
[soldier 18] Yeah, that's strange.
[Major] Maybe we're missing a page.
Corporal Tofte reporting.
Yes. I understand
you worked here on the Ofoten Line?
Yes, I did.
Before I was on neutrality duty,
-sir.
-[Major] We are no longer neutral.
There's supposed to be some dynamite
here according to this plan. Where is it?
I don't know, Major.
This bridge was designed to be blown up,
so there must be dynamite here.
[train engine chugging]
[man 9] Tofte, you've got a phonecall.
Tofte.
Hi dad. Can we speak freely?
[train engine chugging]
Yes, we can talk. Where are you, Gunnar?
Do you know of any dynamite
stashed by the Nordal Bridge?
There's a stash in the tunnel
that goes towards Sweden.
On this side of the tunnel?
[Dad] Yeah. The blast chambers
are in their third pillar.
You'll need… three,
maybe four sticks of dynamite.
I know, Dad.
[Dad] Gunnar, listen.
There's a train coming up the tracks.
Ole and Ingrid are on it--
[Major clears throat]
So you are competent with explosives?
I am Major.
You bring your team, plant
the dynamite, and detonate immediately.
[indistinct chatter]
Shouldn't we let the train pass first?
Do you understand
why we're blowing up this bridge?
To keep the iron ore
from reaching Narvik, sir.
The only reason the Germans are here
is to get that ore
for their armored steel.
-Understood.
-Yes.
Then you understand that we can't risk the
train having German troops onboard.
[tense music playing]
DANGER EXPLOSIVES
This is enough, right?
That's all there was, Major.
[yells] Movement in the tunnel!
Positions! Blast it right away.
[ominous music plays]
[Major] Take cover.
Blast chamber is at
the bottom of the third pillar!
[both grunting]
-[Major] Fire on my command!
-[heavy breathing]
[suspenseful music playing]
They're civilians.
What?
They're civilians!
[Major] Hold your fire!
[girl 1 yells] Daddy!
[soldier 19 yells] Stay there, Grethe!
Get them over the bridge.
Get them here. Quick!
[dramatic music plays]
[soldier 20 yells] Get off the bridge!
Come on! Hurry!
[heavy breathing]
-[Gunnar] Ole!
-Daddy!
[grunts]
-Get off the bridge. It's gonna blow.
-[heavy breathing]
[suspenseful music playing]
What happened to the train?
The Germans stopped it, in Hundalen.
Where are they now?
I have no idea. They were still
at the station when we left.
Into the tunnel. Get them into the tunnel.
Just follow the tracks. It's okay. after
that tunnel, you're almost in Sweden.
And what about you?
[Major] Corporal,
we have to blast right now.
-Yes, Major.
-Go!
Run, Ole. I'm right you behind.
-Are you?
-[Gunnar] Yes!
[yells] Everyone fire on my command!
[suspenseful music plays]
[Gunnar] I told you
to use the blast chambers.
Those?
[Gunnar grunting]
[Magne] We tried, there's no point.
[panting]
We won't have enough dynamite.
Then what should we do?
We need a charge up there.
Take the rest and
attach them to the other side.
-[Magne] Got it.
-[grunts]
[Gunnar pants]
[Magne pants]
[breathing heavily]
Come on.
No, I don't want to,
I want to wait for daddy.
But you heard what daddy said,
he's right behind us.
[indistinct chatter]
Ole!
-[wind howling]
-[gasps]
[heavy breathing]
Ole!
[Ole] Yes.
[Ingrid] Hey.
[Major] Corporal, hurry up!
[bridge clanging]
[Major] Fire!
[gunshots fired]
-Don't think. Just aim and fire.
-[groaning]
[yells] Blow it now!
Magne, catch this!
[dramatic music playing]
[gunshots in distance]
[yelps]
[grunts]
[dramatic music playing]
Aah!
[breathing heavily]
[gunshots and explosions]
[soldier screams in pain]
Bring those two.
Run!
[bullets hitting metal]
[yells] Gunnar, get off the bridge!
[bomb explodes]
[rapid gunshots fired]
[yells] The fuse is lit!
Everyone get clear!
[dramatic music swells]
[soldiers in German] Go, go!
[soldiers in German] Across the bridge!
Go! Move it! Get over the bridge!
[soldier 21 in German] After them!
[dramatic music continues playing]
[fuse crackling]
[heavy breathing]
[dynamite explodes]
[metal hitting snow, metal creaking]
[bomb explodes]
Is daddy coming now?
[soldier 22 in German] Are you alone?
[in German] Yes, we're alone.
[soldier 22] Come with us.
[soldier 23 in German] You
miserable saboteurs. You'll regret this.
[somber music plays]
[soldier 23 in German] Move along!
[soldier 23 in German] Damn
Norwegian pig. You'll pay for that.
[in German] What's happening to them?
[in German] They're prisoners of war.
They'll get their punishment.
They blew up the bridge.
[somber music playing]
[soldier 23 in German] Stop gawking.
[soldier 23] What are you gawking at?
Eyes forward.
[in German] Keep going, please.
[somber music continues playing]
-Grandpa!
-Ole!
Seeing you makes Grandpa happy.
Tell me what happened.
Daddy blew up the bridge
so it's now all crooked now.
The bridge got crooked?
[soldier 24 in German]
Stay right here. Understood?
Is your daddy okay?
-Yes.
-[soldier 24] Mrs. Tofte?
Consul Wussow wants to see you.
Yes.
[indistinct chatter]
[solemn music plays]
[door closes]
[in German] Mrs. Tofte,
thank you for coming.
We're having trouble with the Mayor.
[in German] We need to evacuate.
-[in German] Evacuate?
-Yes.
[in German] We are here to protect you.
Oh, to protect us?
But many Norwegians are dead!
Your men had the opportunity to
surrender and they chose not to.
[in English] No. Ingrid,
he might understand what I'm saying,
but not what I mean.
-We need to evacuate.
-Right.
[in German] Mr. Mayor,
let's start from the top again.
You tried to send a telegraph,
what did you want to achieve by it?
You tried to telegraph and…
they want to know
what you were trying to achieve.
But I've been trying to tell them,
I wanted to warn the British.
[in German] He wanted to warn the British.
[in German] Warn them.
[Wussow in German] About what?
[in English] About what?
[in English] That the town
is full of civilians.
[in German] That the town
-[Mayor in German] Yes.
-Hm.
[in German] Which Englishman
did he talk to?
-He asks who you were in contact with.
-No one, I didn't get that far.
[in German] None.
[in English] Yes. If you
refuse to let us evacuate,
we'll be forced
to use the pedestrian tunnel as a shelter.
We have a long tunnel
that the Mayor wants
to use as an air-raid shelter.
[in German] The English aren't coming.
[Mayor] Oh? So then why
do we need their protection?
Then why do you want to protect us?
The English won't
come because we are here.
[in English] The English won't come
if the Germans are here.
[man 10 in German] For the good
of your people, we should cooperate.
[in German] Oh, cooperate?
Our neutrality has been violated!
[glasses shaking]
[man 10] I'm not done with you yet.
[in English] No. You can tell him
that I have another errand.
[in German] We need the Mayor to
keep the town running. May I try again?
One more thing.
[Wussow] He's temperamental,
but can be reasoned with.
[man 10 in German] Get the man
under control. We need 50 skilled workers.
[glass shatters]
[man 10] See to it.
Go home now and try to get some rest.
Yes.
[door closes]
[Wussow in German] Everything okay?
[in German] My husband was
captured on the Nordal Bridge.
Yes.
I… I fear for his life.
[chuckles]
You have the wrong idea about us,
Mrs. Tofte. We aren't like that.
But he was one of
those who blew up the bridge.
I see.
I will ask General Dietl about it.
Thank you. Would you do that?
Of course.
I will emphasize how
important your work is to us.
His name is Gunnar Tofte.
Okay.
Thanks.
[toy train whirring]
Yeah, that's it.
It's Bjørg.
-[Dad] Oops.
-It's working!
Just go on in.
Let me have a look.
I'm sorry to intrude.
It's our friends from room 503.
They've asked for you to visit.
What for?
To bring this to them.
Why can't you do it?
They insisted on you,
and it has to be today.
[birds chirping]
[Ingrid] No, they'll be
fine without tobacco.
If you don't help, it becomes my problem.
You're the one who
told me to take them to the cabin.
You can't just dump everything on me.
[tense music plays]
[soldier 25 in German] Good morning,
General Dietl. Your car is ready.
[General Dietl in German] Drive me down to
the pier, I'm meeting with Admiral Bontar.
[soldier 25] Yes, sir.
The attaché is here already.
[tense music plays]
[soldier 25] General.
[pensive music plays]
[sighs]
Miss. Bjørg tells me you are
still interpreting for the Germans.
Yes, um…
I guess I don't have a choice.
There is an intimacy about that,
being an interpreter.
What do you mean?
[Mr. Ross] The German consul,
he's clearly attracted to you.
[breaths deeply] Well…
it's… it's not mutual.
[Mr. Ross] You put yourself in a…
precarious position,
telling him of your husband's captivity.
Unless of course you… plan to seduce him.
[sighs scornfully]
You have to ask someone else.
Someone who does that kind of thing.
We have no one better placed
than you to gain the Germans' trust.
No! I'm sorry, consul. Goodbye.
[man 3] Wait! Wait. [exhales]
We truly do not mean
to scare Mrs. Tofte. We need you.
If you reject us, we must assume
you'll pledge alliance with the enemy.
[scoffs]
Why would you think that?
I helped you escape.
Yes. Yes, you did.
And the Germans
would not take kindly toward you
if they suspected as much.
[ominous music plays]
Well, who would tell them?
No one. Possibly.
We need one another, Mrs. Tofte.
Can we count on you?
We need to know where the German
artillery positions are hidden in town.
[Mr. Ross] It's not the German fleet
out here that worries us, Mrs. Tofte.
We have the world's most powerful navy.
But our lads cannot
come ashore to liberate Narvik,
unless you find out from Wussow precisely
how they plan to defend the city.
[anticipatory music plays]
[indistinct chatter]
[in German] Put it over here.
[in German] But when it has been restored
and the trains are running again,
we're faced with the next problem,
the harbor needs to be operational.
The mines need to be operational,
the line has to be operational.
There are volunteers.
Yes.
See to it, use all your channels.
People have to know that
everything will keep going like before.
Everything will keep going as usual.
People should go to work.
Nothing has changed,
everything goes on as normal.
[General Dietl] Thank you.
-[glass clatters]
-[muffled rumbling]
[soldier in German] English warships are
in the fjord! They're attacking, General.
[General Dietl in German] I thought the
German fleet had everything under control?
[bomb explodes]
[General Dietl] Why weren't we warned?
[dramatic music plays]
[bomb explodes]
[horse neighing]
[people shouting]
[yells] Aslak! The basement!
[indistinct shouting]
[bomb explodes]
Are the English bad guys?
No, they are here to help us.
-[people yelling]
-Come on, down to the basement.
[bomb explodes]
[male voice 3 in German]
All men to the dock!
[dramatic music swells and ends]
[baby babbling]
[male voice 4 in German]
All together! All together! Now go!
[indistinct chatter in distance]
[male voice 4] Faster!
Faster! Faster! Faster!
[toy whirring]
[baby babbling]
[toy train whirring]
[bomb explodes]
[children crying]
Ole, come here.
[footsteps approaching]
[toy train whirring]
[somber music plays]
[children crying]
-[toy train whirring]
-[baby babbling]
Come.
There.
[baby fussing]
I have to pee.
You have to pee?
I don't want to pee.
It's perfectly normal to pee.
[baby babbling]
If you get really scared, you have
to hurry or you'll pee in your pants.
Are the Germans peeing their pants now?
[Aslak] I'm sure they are.
And that Hitler too.
[Ole singing] ♪ Hitler is a cheater
And he's a pant peeer ♪
[people laugh]
[solemn music plays]
[coughs]
[Aslak] If I know Polly, she's already
setup the rooms for the English lads.
Is Daddy coming too?
Yes but, maybe not right away.
Okay.
[coughs]
The English lads?
No, they haven't come ashore yet,
and I don't understand why.
They've sunk all the German ships.
[indistinct chatter]
[Polly] Ingrid, we need help out here.
Okay.
Stop helping the Germans.
This is my job, Aslak.
Go home and wait
until the English lads arrive.
[sighs] You go ahead, I'll come later.
[man 11 in German] A little.
Yes, like that.
He's got severe burns, so clean the wounds
please, apply some ointment and bandages.
Yes, we need to clean it
and apply bandages.
[Polly] Yes.
[man 11] And it's the same for him.
Could your colleague take care of it?
[man 11] It's mainly up here.
[man groaning]
[Wussow in German] I've got cars
to take them to the military hospital.
[man 11] Good. We'll take
the most seriously injured ones first.
[Wussow] Okay.
[Wussow] I need all their names.
Mrs. Tofte, could the rest of them
spend the night here?
[in German] Have you
spoken to General Dietl?
No. I'm afraid he's not here.
When will he be back?
[Wussow] You need to be careful.
The General is under a lot of pressure.
What does that mean?
It's the wrong time
to tell him that your husband was there
when they blew up the bridge.
I understand.
[door opens]
[tense music plays]
-[door closes]
-Polly!
-[Polly] Hm?
-[in English] I'll go get more blankets.
[tense music continues playing]
[suspenseful music plays]
[key turns]
[cabinet creaks]
[cabinet opens]
[inhales shakily]
And this is current,
these shooting positions are accurate?
Yeah, yes, they must be.
[chuckles]
I just walked half a mile around
the mountain to avoid that one.
These blue buildings here, Mrs. Tofte.
Do you know what they're for?
That one by the hotel,
that's an office building.
The Germans have started using it.
And how did Wussow and his friends
react to losing his fleet yesterday?
I…
I think he would be
more nervous if your soldiers…
entered town.
Rest assured they will, Mrs. Tofte.
Much thanks to you.
Thank you. I trust you'll
see it returned right away.
You should be proud
of yourself, Mrs. Tofte.
[cipher machine clicking]
[ominous music plays]
[dogs barking]
[soldier 27 in German] Stop complaining.
[soldier 28 in German] Halt!
You know there's a curfew?
[in German] I-I have to get home.
May I see your papers?
Yes.
[soldier 27 in German ] Come on now.
Uh… one moment.
[in English] Here.
Everything's in order. Go on.
[in German] Thank you.
[muffled rumbling]
[bomb explodes]
[yells]
[soldier 28 in German] Direct hit!
[soldier 28] Everyone out of the building!
Put out the fire. Put out the fire!
[men screaming]
[men] Help! [screaming]
[fire crackling menacingly]
[male voice 5] Pray for you lives!
[yells]
[wood clattering]
[tense music plays]
[breathing shakily]
[shouts] Ole! Ole!
Ole? Ole!
[yells] No!
[Ingrid] Aslak.
[wood creaking]
[shouting] Ole!? Ole!?
[Ole] I'm here.
[relieved sigh] Hey.
Mommy, mommy, I'm bleeding.
-[tense music plays]
-[gasps softly]
Hi.
[tense music fades]
ROASME, 4 WEEKS LATER
[pensive music plays]
The Germans have established
an iron ring around Narvik.
French and Polish troops have disembarked
to attack from the north and south.
First the Norwegians must neutralize
the German positions in the mountains.
[pensive music playing]
[breathing heavily]
[man grunting]
[soldier 29 in German] Don't fall behind!
[soldier 29] Get him back up,
damn it! We have to keep going!
[POW 1] Get up.
[in German] Get him up!
[soldier 29] Pathetic Norwegians.
Come on.
[soldier 29] If you can't get him up…
Focus on your girl.
…I'll shoot him.
[POW 1] At the hotel.
-Bjørg's forgotten about me.
-[POW 1] Stop it.
-She remembers.
-Magne, Bjørg is in love with you.
[Gunnar] Ingrid told me.
[grunts]
[soldier 29 in German] Come on! Move!
[solemn music playing]
What else did she say?
Bjørg talks about you, every day.
She's waiting for you.
For you to come home.
[panting]
[wind howling]
[plane whirring]
[bomb explodes in distance]
[indistinct chatter]
[in German] Shut up.
-[in German] Thank you.
-[in German] He already had some.
[in German] Here.
[box thuds]
It gets worse if you stare.
[indistinct conversation]
What's gonna happen--
[soldier 29 in German] You know
what we need?
[soldier 30 in German] Move it!
Look what we are carrying,
Swedish ammunition.
How many dead Norwegians
are in this box, you think?
[soldier 30 in German] The French
are everywhere already.
[indistinct conversation]
[yells in German] Grenade!
[loud rumbling]
[in German] Alright!
Get ready to leave! Get the wounded!
[soldier 30 in German] The wounded
to HQ! Get up, come on.
[soldier 29 in German] Faster! Go!
Faster! This is taking too long!
-Where are we going?
-[soldier 29] Hurry up now!
[POW 2] To the headquarters,
by the railway line.
[soldier 31 in German] Why is this
taking so long? To your position! Go! Go!
[soldier 29] Move it.
[soldier 30] Go!
[soldier 30] There! Yes,
to the side. Further, further.
Hey, be careful.
How careful do you think
the Germans are with us?
How did that
story go again? That guy who got his head
smashed in while the grandkid watched.
[POW 3] The one from Narvik?
[POW 4] Tollefsen.
[POW 3] No, Tofte.
[POW 4] Huh.
[POW 3] How careful do you think
the Germans were with his head?
Did you say Tofte?
Gunnar.
[bomb explodes]
[groans]
[indistinct yelling]
[soldier 29 in German] Go, go!
To our positions!
[indistinct yelling]
[soldier 30 in German]
Get the injured out, quickly!
Get out! Go!
[bomb explodes]
[soldier 30] Go, go, go!
Hurry up! Go, faster!
-[soldier 31 in German] Fall back!
-Come help me.
[soldier 29 in German] Get in position!
Man the machine gun, go!
What happened to the kid? Tofte?
-The grandkid?
-I don't know.
Is he alive?
-[grunts]
-[soldier 29 in German] Shoot the…
[in German] Get up! Stop!
Gunnar!
[gunshots fired]
[in German] Stop right there!
[yells, grunts]
[muffled screams]
[grunts]
[gunshot fired]
[soldier 32 in French] It's okay,
come on. Come on, guys. Let's go.
[Magne] Gunnar, we have to leave.
[in French] Let's run. Look out!
-[shot fired]
-[soldier groans]
[soldier 29 in German] More, I need more!
[in German] Come on, Goddamn
it. Come on-- [screams]
[bomb explodes]
[indistinct yelling]
[soldier 33 in French] Shit.
[soldier 33 in French] Here.
Let's go.
[indistinct yelling]
[yelling in the distance]
[gunshots fired]
[indistinct chatter]
[soldier 34 in German] Machine gun!
[indistinct yelling]
[in French] To the left. To the right.
[rapid gunshots fired]
[indistinct chatter]
[German soldier chattering]
[Gunnar grunts]
[indistinct conversation]
[in French] It's Pierre! It's Pierre!
[in French] It's okay, guys.
It's okay. He's with us.
-Ah, thank you.
-[soldier 35 in French] Who is he?
Well done. Pierre.
-Gunnar.
-[in French] You're welcome.
-[Pierre in French] Come on.
-[ominous music plays]
[panting]
[somber music plays]
What the fuck are you doing here?
Norwegian?
[Gunnar grunting]
[soldier 36] Are you injured?
No.
[somber music continues playing]
[indistinct conversation]
[Major] Okay, bring them
down to the camp right away.
[soldier 37] Yes sir.
[Major] You're sure
the Germans fled the mountain?
-[soldier 37] Major.
-[Major] Something to report?
[soldier 37] Two dead Germans
at the machine gun post.
Both shot by Corporal Tofte.
[Major] Yeah.
The guy who told you that story,
is he here?
[POW 3] No.
I didn't know it
was your father, my condolences.
Corporal, all this was very well done.
I must get to Narvik.
Yeah, you'll be there
soon fighting like that.
[soldier 32 in French] Come on.
But when?
Well, when all the Germans are gone.
May go quicker now that
we have the French are helping
and even the Polish from the south.
-I need to go home now.
-[Major] Yeah.
Then you must fight.
Corporal, you have
a little boy, don't you?
[somber music playing]
I don't know if he's alive.
You need to believe in it.
Believe that we'll
soon be standing in Narvik.
Then you can look
your kid in the eye and know
he'll be growing up in a free land.
Come on. Come on. Up you go.
This is what we're fighting for.
We're Norwegians
and we fight for each other.
[soldiers] Yes!
[somber music swells]
NARVIK, 1 WEEK LATER
Civilians are caught in the crossfire
between German positions
and British ships.
[somber music plays]
[baby crying in the distance]
Hold still.
Ow!
Does it hurt?
Yes.
[somber music plays softly]
Hold.
Ah! Hey. We talked about this.
[baby crying in the distance]
There.
Ingrid, I have to talk to you.
[Ingrid] What's going on?
[Bjørg whispers] It's the Germans.
They're going door to door,
asking who's hiding the English.
Did you told anyone?
No, but now they're asking for you.
To interpret?
I don't know.
You have to go. I'll stay here Ole.
[somber music playing]
[in German] My superiors want
to ration the food further.
They want to cut the rations.
No. People are starving. I won't do it.
[in German] The people are
starving. We need food.
I know. It's only until
they find the British Consul.
Those who are helping the English
now are putting everyone else in danger.
Do you understand?
[in English] Well he says it's just till
they find the English consul and it's
-just--
-[Mayor] I don't know where the consul is.
[in German] Consul Wussow, I need to ask
you to please follow me to the basement.
Yes.
We need to go to the basement.
I don't want to go
with a bunch of Germans.
They have lost
their homes and their families.
He needs to
understand that it's your people
who are suffering the most
under the British air raids.
He says we, the people of Narvik,
suffer the most from the British bombing.
-[bomb explodes]
-[screaming]
[in German] Where is consul Ross?
[in German] I don't know.
[in English] And if I did know,
I probably wouldn't tell you.
[Wussow in German] I can give
you one more day,
then you have to tell us who it is that's
providing the English with intelligence.
Otherwise you will be
charged with high treason.
They'll charge you with treason
if they don't show up tomorrow.
[bells ringing]
[Wussow in German] It's dangerous outside.
You should stay
the night here at the hotel.
[in German] I have to go to my son.
For his sake,
you should think of your own safety.
He has nightmares because of the bombs.
I see. I only have
nightmares during the day.
Mm. And the days keep getting longer.
A few more weeks
and there will be no more nights.
[baby crying]
[man coughing]
-[baby crying]
-[man coughing]
How did it go?
Hi, honey.
When did you last speak to the English?
Yesterday.
We'll they blow up
the whole town before they get here?
They'll come soon.
Soon?
Yeah.
Mom, I'm bleeding.
I checked, he's not bleeding.
I know. He has these nightmares.
-[baby crying]
-[people coughing]
[muffled rumbling]
Ole! Ole! No!
Ole! Ole! [cries] Ole!
[dramatic music plays]
[gunshots in distance]
[soldiers yelling in the distance]
[in German] I'm sorry, consul,
she insisted.
[Ingrid in German] Get the doctor.
-[in German] Mrs. Tofte. What happened?
-Right away, please.
His wound's got badly infected.
[muffled explosion sounds]
[sighs]
We have countless
seriously injured soldiers.
And the doctor is under orders
to take care of them first. I am sorry.
But I work for you.
I know.
He is all I have. Please!
But you don't understand.
I can't go over the heads of
the commanders. It is a military issue.
[exhales]
I know where the consul is.
Pardon?
I know where the Englishmen are.
[solemn music plays]
[Bjørg] Ingrid?
[door closes]
-Is Ingrid here?
-Please wait in the lobby.
But it's really important.
[Bjørg] Ingrid?
What's going on? Is he sick?
He's going to be fine.
[Bjørg] Can I talk to you?
Not now.
-[in German] That's enough.
-[Bjørg] It can't wait.
-What is it?
-[whispers] They've been caught.
[whispers] How do you know that?
There were German at the cabin.
[Ingrid] Did they see you?
[doctor in German] You have
to do it carefully.
Make sure that he stays still.
[solemn music playing]
How were you able to get a doctor here?
Bjørg, look at me.
I didn't say you helped me hide them.
[doctor in German] Look.
Two millimeters to the right
and it would have hit his lung.
Small blessings.
-[metal clangs]
-[door opens]
[door closes]
[solemn music playing]
THE ROMBAKS FJORD, 2 WEEKS LATER
[birds cawing]
Norwegian and French soldiers have waited
for the go-ahead for
the decisive battle of Narvik
[bomb fired]
[soldiers coughing]
[soldier 38 yells] Grenade!
How are the blasting caps?
They're going to work, Major.
Yeah?
Take a look. As soon as they fire
they move the cannon
back into the tunnel so it's
completely hidden.
[tense music plays]
[bomb fired]
[Major] Do you see
the five machine gun positions?
[Gunnar] Yes.
Once the French have
taken them out, you'll get a signal
and then go full speed into
the tunnel and take out the cannon.
[tense music continues playing]
This is the last hill
before Narvik. Let's go!
[ships stops]
[soldiers yell valiantly]
[suspenseful music plays]
[deep ominous music plays]
Come on!
[suspenseful music playing]
I don't see any signal.
Keep going.
[gunshots fired]
[soldiers yelling]
Aah!
Hansen!
[grunts]
[dramatic music plays]
Gunnar?
Am I dying?
It's not your blood!
[bomb explodes]
Run!
Do you want to die?
[gunshots fired]
[indistinct chatter]
[Major] Halt! Halt!
Goddamn cowards!
Anyone who takes one more step, I shoot.
Go back!
[bomb explodes]
Major, they hit one of our ships.
We have to take out that cannon!
[heavy breathing]
Come on.
[shouts] Come on!
[soldier 39 in French] Come on, guys!
Let's follow him! Let's go, follow him!
It's no use!
[soldier 39 in French] We're going to
help him. Follow me!
We can't give up here, Gunnar.
We have to go up.
There's another way.
Another way?
[grunting]
[soldier 40] We can't do it alone.
[in French] French?
French?
[Gunnar] Come on, Præstnes!
Come on.
[suspenseful music plays]
[panting]
[gunshots fired]
[indistinct German chatter]
[ominous music plays]
[panting]
[soldier 41 in German] Everything alright?
[soldier 42 in German]
Everything under control?
[soldier 41 in German] Say something?
[rapid gunshots fired]
[soldier 41 in German] Shoot them dead!
[gunshots hitting metal]
-[gunshot whizzing]
-[groans]
[heart beating audibly]
[Magne] No.
[screaming]
[manic screams]
[Præstnes yells] Don't shoot!
Hey! Don't shoot!
Major! The cannon has been destroyed!
Roger! Forward!
[soldiers in French] Come on, guys!
We're going up!
[soldiers in French] Commander! Commander!
[muffled chatter]
[in German] Here, you got that?
[in German] What about this one?
[in German] Burn it. Here's more.
[in German] Go in and get
the one from the stairs.
[indistinct conversation]
[Ingrid] You asked for me?
Yes. Wussow here,
he wanted to talk to you before he leaves.
[in German] So you're doing better?
That's nice to see.
[in German] Thank you.
I should thank you.
You were a great help to me and to Narvik.
-Are you leaving?
-Yes.
Sadly.
Would you consider
accompanying me to Berlin?
Eh…
[in Norwegian] Ole, can you go
talk to Polly? I'll be there soon.
[Polly] Ole, come with me.
I've got something for you.
-[Ole] For me?
-Yes, I got some chocolate.
[in German] I am not one of you.
[snickers]
[in German] But you'll
all soon be a part of us.
The world is changing
right now. And very quickly.
Hitler is victorious everywhere.
But not here.
There will be brutal
German air raids on Narvik.
I don't want you to be
here all alone when this happens.
Alone? I'm not alone.
[Wussow sighs]
[in German] Mrs. Tofte… your husband's
name is Gunnar Tofte, correct?
Yes.
His name has been removed from our lists.
Removed? What does that mean?
I'm afraid that's bad news. I am sorry.
May I see the list?
[Wussow] I just didn't
know how to tell you.
Your son was so ill at the time.
Mm-hm.
[somber music plays]
[Ingrid] Hi.
Hi.
-What are you doing?
-Folding.
You're so good.
Did you know about this?
What?
About Gunnar?
-Huh? Did you know?
-Ooh.
[crying]
[sobs] I can't do this.
-Ingrid, you have to be strong.
-[sniffs]
For Ole's sake.
You have to get out of Narvik.
You can't stay here, people are talking.
Who's talking?
You know how people are.
They need someone to be angry at.
[somber music playing]
Especially with the Germans leaving.
Look, here's your pay, Ingrid.
Don't you have family further north?
I think you should go there,
far away from Narvik.
It's your money. Take Ole and leave.
You can do it. You have Ole.
Just go.
[somber music continues playing]
Ole. Ole, come.
What about you? How do you
think people are going to look at you?
I only have myself to worry about.
I don't have a little… prince like you do.
I'll be fine.
[soldiers clamoring]
[indistinct chatter]
[excited yelp]
[soldiers clamoring]
[soldiers cheering]
♪ It's a long way to southern Norway ♪
♪ It's a long way to go ♪
♪ We shall win ♪
♪ We shall prevail
When we all together go ♪
♪ The weapons, hear them calling ♪
♪ We will chase the Germans home ♪
♪ It's a far, far way to southern Norway ♪
♪ But we'll leave right away ♪
[in French] And now the Frenchmen!
♪ It's a long way to Tipperary ♪
♪ It's a long way to go ♪
[in French] The town is yours now.
[bittersweet music plays]
[indistinct singing]
[bittersweet music continues playing]
[in French] Here's to you! Cheers!
[Pierre in French] Is that his wife?
She's beautiful.
[chuckles]
[in French] Go back home.
[bittersweet music plays]
-[exhales]
-[in French] Your city is yours now.
[bittersweet music continues playing]
[Mayor] Here they come! [laughs]
They are coming!
Our boys are on their way!
-[laughs]
-[honks]
NARVIK, 28. MAY 1940
[crowd cheering] Hooray!
[bittersweet music plays]
[man 12] Hooray!
[crowd cheering] Hooray!
[indistinct chatter]
-Hooray!
[laughs]
[laughing in the crowd]
Hooray!
[woman 3] Welcome home!
[whistling]
-Hi. Isn't Ingrid here?
-Hi.
I don't know.
It's not easy for her,
after dealing with the Germans so much.
What do you mean?
[whooping in the crowd]
[indistinct chatter in the distance]
[dog barking]
[nostalgic music plays]
[birds chirping]
[nostalgic music continues playing]
[Ingrid] Ole?
Look what I found.
[nostalgic music playing]
[both exhale with relief]
-[chuckles] They said you were dead.
-[chuckles]
Who did?
[breathing audibly] No.
[audible breathing]
[sighs]
[Gunnar] Hi, Ole.
Won't you say hi to your daddy?
-Hey. Hey you.
-[timidly] Hi.
-Nice flag.
-Thanks.
You wanna come and celebrate?
I'm not allowed.
Of course you're allowed.
Why wouldn't you be?
Polly said that we need to leave town.
Right. We have to leave town.
I ran into Bjørg.
Have you heard the rumor she's spreading?
[splutters] I can… I can…
I can explain it to you but not now.
Why can't you?
Please, Gunnar.
-Do you want to bring the train?
-Yes.
What did you do with the Germans?
I did what I had to do.
What's that?
He was dying.
Do you want to show daddy your scar?
-[Gunnar] No.
-Look!
Ole, you don't have to show me anything.
Have you been with a German?
No.
Then why are you running away? Tell me!
Because I gave up the English.
That's not true.
It is.
They're on our side.
They weren't on my side.
I wouldn't be standing
here today if it were not for them.
Then look at where you are standing!
Ole almost died from an English grenade.
And it was the same
grenade that killed your dad!
That must have been an accident!
And that's not a reason to switch sides.
-You don't understand.
-What Ingrid? That you're a traitor!?
Who have I betrayed?
Us! The ones who defended you.
Then who was here defending Ole?
While all of you were out there fighting?
Should I just have let him die?
[Gunnar] Ingrid, this is war. People die!
It would have been better
if you never came back!
[Ingrid] Ole, are you ready? Come on.
[sighs]
[plane whirring]
[bombs exploding]
[screaming in the distance]
[Ole] I'm bleeding, I'm bleeding!
-You're not… you're not bleeding.
-[Ole yells]
-Hey stop! Stop!
-Hey. You're not bleeding.
-[Ole groans]
[shushes]
[plane whirring]
Now we see how
the Germans thank you for helping.
[bomb explodes]
[screaming in the distance]
[man 13] Præstnes, get down!
[Præstnes screams]
[screaming in the distance]
Gunnar?
Hey, it's too late. He's dead.
He's gone.
[tense music plays]
[Magne] Why didn't we
return fire at their planes?
[Major] It's the English who
are defending the airspace.
[Magne] But there aren't
any English ships in the fjord.
[Major] If the English have left,
it's to defend their homeland.
[somber music plays]
[man 14] Is it true that
Hitler has taken France?
Fight for everything
you hold dear and die if you must.
Private Præstnes did just that.
He died for everything he held dear.
A sacrifice he made
for us standing here now.
We are Norwegians
and we fight for each other.
And now more than ever
we need those of you who are
willing to sacrifice themselves.
Who are willing to sacrifice
everything for what they hold dear.
[man 14] Yes.
[dramatic music plays]
[indistinct chatter]
Where is the camp?
It's up the road to the right.
[man 15] Where can I find a weapon?
[man 16] The camp's in the woods.
[plane whirring]
[man 17] German planes!
[man 17] Planes!
[plane whirring]
Come onboard.
[woman 4] Don't just stand there. Move.
-[woman 5] They are coming back.
-Out of my way.
[man 18] You don't belong here.
[woman 6] Come on, hurry.
[sad music plays]
[woman 7] Let's move forward.
-[woman 7] Do you need help or something?
-[woman 6] Get some Germans to help you.
[sad music playing]
[solemn music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[solemn music continues playing]
[solemn music playing]
Local fishing boats succeeded
in evacuating the remaining civilians
before German bombers
left the city in ruins.
[solemn music playing]
The recapture of Narvik is considered
Hitler's first defeat in world war II.
But the victory was brief.
[solemn music playing]
Without informing Norway, Great Britain
and France ordered a full withdrawal.
[solemn music playing]
Norwegian forces were left alone
and forced to lay down their weapons
on June 8th 1940.
The battle of Narvik
is the largest battle on Norwegian soil.
[solemn music playing]
[rousing music playing]
Subtitle translation by: Anu Akiyode